Proposed Methodology: 

The proposed method, preprocessing steps and the experiment design is described below. 

Architecture of proposed method : - 

The proposed PNN based imputation technique is shown in the figure. 

Let X denote the dataset and C denote the number of attributes. Let XD denote the dataset with all the values of X converted in to nominal numbers. For the experiment purpose 5% data of XD is replaced by ‘?’. Let XCR denote the set of complete records and XIR denote the set of incomplete records. All the rows of XD that does not contain ‘?’ is appended to XCR and the rest are appended to XIR. For XIR the mode of each attribute is calculated and stored in a list. The mode is calculated by ignoring the missing values in each attribute. 

The resulting dataset is termed as XIM. Taking attribute 1 as the output and all other attributes as the input dataset X1 is generated removing the 1st attribute from XIM. 

Now a list X_true is made which contains all the correct values at the position of missing values for 1st attribute. Dataset X_M and XTR are made from X1 and XCR respectively taking 1st attribute as the output. One Hot Encoding is applied on X_M and XTR and they are converted into indicator matrices. Dataset Xa and Xb are created which contains all the rows of XCR with nominal value 1 and 2 respectively in 1st attribute.  Now 10 fold cross validation is used . In each fold a test set is generated by taking the rows from X_M at the positions which contain ‘?’ in 1st  column of XIR. Train set for class 1 of 1st attribute is Xa and that of class 2 is Xb. Now PNN is used to classify each row of X_test into class 1 or 2 and is stored in list all_pred_values. For each fold percentage correct prediction (PCP) is calculated by comparing the predicted class with the true class . These steps are then repeated for all the other attributes.  

 

 

 

 

 

Algorithm for PNN based data imputation 

{ 

for Xij in XD 

   if Xij is missing then 

Add Xi to XIR 

Else 

Add Xi to XCR 

for each j in (0, number of attributes) 

modej = Calc_Mode(XD,j) 

 

for each i in rows  

for each j in column 

if Xij is missing then  

Xij=modej 

Add Xi to XIM 

for i in rows of XIR 

if XIR[i][0] is missing then 

add ith row of XIR to X1 

for each i in rows  

for each j in column 

if X1ij is missing then  

X1ij=modej 

for i in rows of XD 

if XD[i][0] is missing then  

add X_complete[i][0] to X_true 

for i in rows of X1 

Add X1[i][1:6] to XPR 

for i in rows of XCR 

Add XCR[:][1:6] to XTR 

Convert XTR into indicator matrix 

for i in rows of XIR 

Add XIR[:][1:6] to X_M 

for each i in rows  

for each j in column 

if X_Mij is missing then  

X_Mij=modej 

Convert X_M to indicator matrix 

For i in rows of XCR 

If XCR[i][0] is 1 then 

Add XCR[i][:] to Xa 

If XCR[i][0] is 2 then 

Add XCR[i][:] to Xb 

Train PNN using X_M, Xa and Xb with SF as alpha 

Now predict the values for X_M 

} 

Experimental Design:- 

The dataset used here is Process Safety Dataset. The experiment is carried out with 5% missing data. Since in the original dataset no data was missing , we removed 5% of the total data randomly.  All the records with missing values was removed from the dataset and the rest was used for experimenting purpose. To get the best result 10 folds cross validation was used. ith test fold was tested by training the dataset on XTR. To check the accuracy of the prediction Percentage Correct Prediction(PCP) is calculated for each test fold.  
